# Mushroom-Classification-Bayesian-Networks
Mushrooms are a type of fungi and they belong to a kingdom of their own, and are not a part of plants and animals. It is fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground, on soil, or on its food source. Mushrooms are great in variety and there are around 14000 species found till date Out of this vast number of species, approximately 100 are toxic. The poisonous mushrooms contain different types of toxins that can differ in toxicity. The symptoms may vary from gastric upset which can cause vomiting, diarrhoea (requires hospitalization sometimes) to organ failure resulting in death. The symptoms always do not occur immediately after consumption, often not until the toxins attack the kidney or liver. Sometimes it may take days or weeks for the symptoms to occur. A majority of these cases are due to misidentification. A lot of mushrooms look alike where one is edible and another one is poisonous. It is normal to get confused. Multiple cases have been reported where the victim had limited experience in identifying the mushroom and realised when the symptoms showed days later. Many times mushroom poisoning is the result of small children or pet animals ingesting the mushrooms grown in lawn or parks when left unsupervised. Mushroom poisoning is a public health problem and this needs to be taken seriously. People need to be educated about this and have some idea about identifying the difference between edible and non-edible ones. There are a lot of classifications made already but new species of mushrooms are discovered every year so the old classification is not sufficient in describing whether a particular species is harmful or edible for humans. Different species of mushrooms may look similar and can only be distinguished but few specific attributes. Thus differentiating the edible and poisonous mushroom is not a very easy task. There are two approaches to identify whether the mushroom is edible or not- image data or attribute based research. The attribute based research relies on one specific dataset and we are going to use this approach to identify whether or not a mushroom is edible. I will use a Bayesian network to find the probability of a mushroom being edible. I have taken the dataset from UCI and this data set includes descriptions of hypothetical samples corresponding to 23 species of gilled mushrooms. Each species is identified as definitely edible, definitely poisonous, or of unknown edibility and not recommended.


The Report is organized as follows:
1.A breif descripition of the datset used/Data Manipulation
2.Data Cleaning and Data Exploration
3.A detail view of Bayesian Model/CPT
4.Independencies
5.Markov Blanket and Active Trails
6.Variable Elimination Queries
